Q1) What is cloud?
Ans:- 
Cloud technology enables the reusability of IT resources for storing large databases, developing and hosting complex applications, and expanding computational power and other services on demand. cloud is reffer as server we can access it through internet. We dont have use our own memory processor to run a software ,cloud provides us this services.
Cloud unble user to access file , software almost from any device.
Small big businesses switch to cloud to save time and cost.
Due to ease in access its preferred almost all industries.

Q2) Types of clouds?
Ans:-
There are three types of cloud deployments categorized based on an organization’s ability to manage and secure assets as well as business needs.
Public cloud:
Public cloud, in general, is SaaS services offered to users over the internet. It is the most economical option for users in which the service provider bears the expenses of bandwidth and infrastructure. It has limited configurations, and the cost is determined by usage capacity. That said, the limitations of the public cloud are its lack of SLA specifications. Despite high reliability, lower costs, zero maintenance and on-demand scalability, the public cloud is not suitable for organizations operating with sensitive information as they have to comply with stringent security regulations.
Private cloud:
As the name suggests, the private cloud is used by large organizations to build and manage their own data centers for specific business and IT needs/ operations. The private cloud provides more control over customizability, scalability and flexibility, while improving security of assets and business operations. This sort of infrastructure can be built on premises or outsourced to a third party service provider – either way, it has the ability to maintain the hardware and software environment over a private network solely for the owner. Large- and medium-scale financial enterprises and government agencies typically opt for private clouds.
Hybrid cloud:
Hybrid cloud is the combination of a private and public cloud, providing for more flexibility to businesses while having control over critical operations and assets, coupled with improved flexibility and cost efficiency. The hybrid cloud architecture enables companies to take advantage of the public cloud as and when necessary due to their easy workload migration. For instance, businesses can use the public cloud for running high-volume applications like emails, and utilize private clouds for sensitive assets like financials, data recovery, and during scheduled maintenance and rise in demand.

Q3)what is EC-2?
Ans:-
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud. Using Amazon EC2 eliminates your need to invest in hardware up front, so you can develop and deploy applications faster. 
Amazon EC2 provides the following features:
    • Virtual computing environments, known as instances
    • Preconfigured templates for your instances, known as Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), that package the bits you need for your server (including the operating system and additional software)
    • Various configurations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity for your instances, known as instance types
    • Secure login information for your instances using key pairs (AWS stores the public key, and you store the private key in a secure place)
    • Storage volumes for temporary data that's deleted when you stop or terminate your instance, known as instance store volumes

